# Observer-Based Repetitive Model Predictive Control in Active Vibration Suppression

an observer-based feedback/feedforward model predictive control (MPC) algorithm is developed for addressing the vibration suppression of lightly damped structures. For this purpose, the feedback control design process is formulated in the framework of disturbance rejection control (DRC) and a repetitive MPC is adapted to guarantee the robust asymptotic stability of the closed-loop system. To this end, a recursive least square algorithm is engaged for online estimation of the disturbance signal, and the estimated disturbance is feedforwarded through the control channels. Next, the internal model principle is adjusted to account for the disturbance dynamics in active vibration control method (AVC). A broad frequency range is considered for unknown energy bounded disturbances as an independent input to the nominal plant by means of the shaker test in the experimental modal analysis. For the sake of relieving the computational burden of online optimization within the broad prediction horizons, a set of orthonormal Laguerre functions is utilized. Additionally, a nominal frequency range is defined to identify a reduced order plant for control development purposes. A series of comprehensive experimental analysis are carried out to address the robustness of the AVC system with respect to unmodelled dynamics, parametric uncertainties of modeling, and external noise both in time- and frequency-domain. The dynamical properties of AVC systems subjected to external mechanical disturbances pose additional challenges such as spillover effect of the actuation authorities and saturation of the active elements both of which are discussed carefully.

Keywords: Model predictive control, Vibration attenuation, Orthonormal basis functions, Disturbance Estimation, Piezoelectric material.
